Good morning.
It is a joy to be with you this morning, and even though today, it's a joy to be with you this morning, but I think most of us know if you are a member of Concorde, unless you're watching online today, if you're one of the campuses or here, most of us know today is not a normal Sunday at Concorde Baptist Church.
We are, this is the first Sunday for all of us, myself included, sort of a post Levi Sunday, and I just wanted to before I launch into the message today,
acknowledge that that being the case it's a day that's filled with emotions of all different kinds.
I've heard all different kinds of responses from folks as you know we've all processed the fact that Levi's called to a greater opportunity and he's now working as the head of evangelism for the Georgia Baptist Mission Board.
Some of the folks I've talked with have said you know that is just their their response to that first and foremost has just been excitement
And thankfulness that God has called Levi to a greater platform.
He'll have an opportunity to influence an entire state.
And I am thankful for that.
And thank God for that.
And proud to have been a part, as Concord, proud to have been a part of preparing him for that.
But I'd be lying if I told you that my first response was to be excited and proud when Levi told me that he was going to be going to a different place.
I don't know what your first response was.
Don't know what your response is right now.
Now, today is the day I would imagine that some folks who are sad, and I can understand that, some folks may be who are angry or may be anxious.
Now, those are just all ways that normal human beings process change and loss, and so it is okay.
Whatever you feel today, I'm not trying to tell you how to feel about it, but I just want to acknowledge this is not a normal day at Concord, but I think it is a great day.
We're all processing a change that we may not have expected.
What happens for churches as a whole also happens for individuals.
As a church, we may be at that spot where we say, you know, what now?
What next?
But individuals get to that same spot from time to time where life throws you a curve, something you did not expect.
Maybe there's a change you have to process or a loss that you have to deal with.
You're not sure how you're going to deal with that thing.
It may be that it's exciting, a new opportunity.
It may be that it's ominous and threatening.
But in any case, it's different.
And you're not sure what to do with that.
So you're asking that same question.
What now?
What next?
Whenever you get to that spot and you're asking that question, what now?
You're in a season of life where it's as if somebody's turning the page or moving to a different chapter.
I think there are always some things that we can stop and focus on that are going to help us in knowing how we're going to manage that transition, how we're going to live effectively in that next season, whether it's true for a whole church or it's true for you and me as individuals.
And so because of that, I want to, for the next several weeks, I want to talk to you about the subject of focus.
Because when we're managing a change, it's always vital what we decide to focus on.
If we focus on the right things and we can manage that change effectively, come out of it stronger and better than ever before.
If we don't focus, then sometimes we begin to drift.
We begin to lose our way and just kind of make sometimes make bad decisions, wrong decisions.
I hope that's not going to be a case for any of us here.
For Concord, I think this issue of focus is a vital one for us.
You know, my primary emotion
personally for the change that we're going through is really one of thankfulness in the sense that I'm thankful.
I'm so thankful for the good and wise leader that God gave us for the last nine years.
I'm thankful that God has expanded our borders.
We're a larger church and that's one way, but I'm thankful and a more meaningful sense that God has enlarged our vision.
When I compare where Concord is today to where we were nine years ago,
I know that we understand it a greater way than ever before, what our potential is and what can take place through the ministry of this church.
And we don't need to lose that.
We don't need to lose energy.
We don't need to lose momentum.
I don't think we have to.
As long as we focus, we can maintain that momentum.
And I think come out stronger than ever before.
That's true for churches.
It's true for people.
The passage you want to look at way to this morning as we move into this series as a passage,
from the book of Hebrews and the 12th chapter, the first couple of verses.
It talks about how we deal with drift or the temptation to drift in a season of change.
And it is written by a writer who is telling the folks in his day and time.
These are normal folks like you and me.
They're folks who are dealing with all kinds of changes that life brings, many of which may have been unexpected, some of which may have been obstacles or challenges or even fears.
But if you read the 11th chapter of the book of Hebrews, it just goes right before this passage we'll look at today.
What you'll find there is almost a kind of a who's who of the Old Testament.
Person after person who faced obstacles and challenges, fears of all types, but who overcame their obstacles and their challenges to live effectively.
So much so that we're still talking about them today.
And the writer of Hebrews is
It's as if he says, I want you to imagine that great cloud of witnesses, all these people who have already run their ricks and lived effectively overcome their challenges.
And now it's as if he says, it's as if they're peering over the boundaries of heaven and they're watching us and they're asking that question, what now?
And what are these people gonna do now?
Whether we talk about us as a whole, as Concord or talk about you individually, the challenges that you face.
And as he asks them to imagine this scenario, it's as if the writer is saying to the people in his day and time, I want you to focus.
And here's how you can focus.
Here are some of the places that you need to focus.
If you want to live well and live effectively, given the realities of your day and time.
So here's the text.
And in honor of God's word, as we always do, let's all stand together and let's read it together.
Hebrews chapter 12,
The first couple of verses I'm reading from the New American Standard Bible.
The Bible says, therefore, since we have so great a cloud of witnesses surrounding us, let us also, like they did, lay aside every encumbrance your Bible may say, wait.
And the sin which so easily entangles us and let us run like they did.
With endurance, the race that is set before us,
fixing our eyes on Jesus, the author and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy set before Him endured the cross, despising the shame, and sat down at the right hand of the throne of God.
Thank you.
You can be seated.
So how do we live effectively?
in the midst of changes that we may not have expected, in midst of challenges or obstacles and sometimes fears, whatever you're facing today, how do we live effectively in real life?
The writer of Hebrew says to the people that he, his audience, the folks that he wanted to encourage, he says, there are just a few things I want you to remember, and the first of those things is you live effectively when you remember what your race is.
Therefore, since we have so great a cloud of witnesses surrounding us, let us also lay aside every encumbrance and let us run with endurance, what?
The race the Bible says that is set before us.
It's a key to life.
You and I today, and we live in the part of the state where if we choose to, I mean, when we get in our car, we can ride past any number of pastures and places where they're all kind of cattle out there.
You probably can't get home today without seeing someplace where they're a cattle in a field.
And if you look over at those cattle today, you'll notice they're chewing their cut or whatever it is that cows do.
And they are completely satisfied to be able to do that today to eat and to sleep and whatever else it is that cows do.
And they're completely satisfied to do that today.
And I'm telling you, they're gonna be completely satisfied to do that tomorrow.
And the day after that, and the day after that, that's just how cows are wired.
Not that I've ever been a cow, mind you, but it's just how they're wired.
They don't have a race to run.
Now, can we all agree this morning that there's a difference between how God wears a cow and how God wears you and me?
You may be in a season of life where you say to yourself, you know, I'm just as tired as I can be.
I would like to live like a cow for just a little while.
I'd like to not have any responsibilities.
I would like just to be able to eat and sleep and do what I want, have no deadlines, no requirements, no worries.
And you can probably do that for just about a week.
And some of you go on vacation, maybe you can do it for two weeks.
But if you're like me at the end of those two weeks, you're looking at your wife, you're saying, I'm ready to go home.
I've held out just about enough of this life where there is no purpose or there's no race to run.
There's no objective to accomplish.
I don't know about you, but if someone pins me not inside of a pasture, maybe they pin me inside of a room and they just feed me and give me what I need to exist, but I can't carry out any purpose.
That's not a, that's not an effective way to live in my mind.
I don't think it is yours either.
The truth is that God has given every one of us a purpose to live for, or in the biblical terms, a race to run.
I don't know what your race is.
Your race is different than mine because you are wired differently than me.
You have different gifts than me.
We all do, and thank God for that.
But every one of us has a race to run.
The guys who lead us in worship this morning, I'm gonna guess that it probably
you know, for Philip or for Joe.
I mean, these are guys who, the opportunity to lead people to the throne of God is not just something, it's a casual endeavor to them.
It's like a fire that burns deep inside of them, something they have to do.
And when they get a chance to do it, there's a joy that's attached to that.
It touches eternity.
They have a race to run.
But Jamie stood here a minute ago and talked to us about vacation Bible school.
That's just one small slice of a ministry that takes place all year long, where people like him and other folks who don't get paid for it, but have tremendous joy in it.
They invest in the lives of people who are the next generation.
And they understand that in being able to do this, that it adds value to their own life, that they have a race to run.
You may be a mom.
And you understand that the deepest purpose you have in this world is to prepare those kids for the next generation.
It's your race to run.
Can I just say to you that nobody lives life effectively if they forget what their race is?
That the right way or the way to live your life effectively in any season is to remember what your race is.
All of us attempted to forget it.
When I think about this subject, the person that comes to my mind most is a lady, and many of you would not know her.
She's with the Lord now.
Her name was Margaret Birx.
Margaret died.
She was just about 100 years old.
She died several years ago.
She was a member of First Baptist Church in Flowery Branch.
And when Margaret was 78 years old, her husband passed.
And she thought, like a lot of people would think, that most of my life is done by now.
I don't have any particular purpose to achieve.
And it was like she was praying one day and she said, you know, if she heard the Lord say to her that he wanted her to go at 78, that he wanted her to go to seminary and study for the ministry.
And she looked to you to tell this story.
She looked up at the Lord and she'd say, Lord, do you know how old I am?
And she'd say, yeah, the Lord said, yes, I know how old you are, I made you.
So she lost that argument.
And at 78, Margaret went to seminary.
In her 80s, Margaret began to go to the mission field.
Can I tell you, I have never seen anybody more alive.
Into her 90s, Margaret got sick in her 90s, late in her 90s.
She couldn't go to the mission field anymore.
And she said, you know what?
My mission field now is a dialysis room.
She would have to be hooked up there all day, all hours at a time.
And the nurses had to stay.
They said, this is my mission field.
She never forgot she had a race to run.
Margaret was a force to be reckoned with.
She was a joy to be around, even until she died.
And she was, every day she lived, fully alive.
Because she never forgot she had a race to run.
Can I just tell you this morning, God has given you a race to run.
It's not my place to tell you what it is.
I can only tell you that the race God has given you to run is a place where your life intersects eternity.
And it matters.
It matters absolutely.
It's what fuels and brings energy to life.
And the way to live effectively is always to remember it.
It's not just true for you and me as an individual.
It's true for all of us as Concord Baptist Church.
My job as the director of missions for the Chattahoochee Baptist Association gives me the privilege of working with churches of all types, all sizes.
I love everyone.
But can I tell you this morning that not all of them are healthy?
And that when they become unhealthy, it's always about this same thing.
That somewhere, somebody, some begins to substitute a different thing as the priority.
A different thing in the place of the race that God has given them to run.
And so now then the priority becomes, you know, whatever makes me comfortable, or maybe the priority becomes, you know, the heritage of something in the past, or you name it.
One of the great joys that we have experienced here at Concord in the last nine years is that our pastor made it so much more plain to us what our race is.
And we all know it, just three words.
Say it with me, making disciples
everywhere.
And if I could give you one word today, just one word I would ask you with me to embrace that race.
Because the truth is, while it may be that we have a different pastor a year from now, six months from now, that those things are changing, that this is not changing.
The race that God has given us, or look at it in the text, the race that is set before us,
is not a race that was set before us by any single pastor.
The race it is set before us was set before us by Jesus himself.
Go ye therefore and make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them and then with the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I've commanded you.
There's so many churches today that somewhere along the way have decided they're not going to take that race seriously.
And for every time they do, the energy drains out of them and the life drains out of them.
One of the reasons it's been such a joy to be a part of Concord in the last nine years is that our pastor helped us understand our race.
He didn't give it to us.
He just helped us to see it.
And we don't need to forget it.
So if I could say one thing to you, I would say, let's be Concord Baptist Church.
Let's take that race with absolute seriousness.
Let's take it seriously.
And one other thing I want to ask you to do, take it personally.
Because it's not Levi's race.
It's not the staff's race.
It was given to all of us by Jesus.
And it has a personal implication for every one of us.
Remember your race.
Now, if we're going to take it personally, we're going to have to do some things personally to be able to run it.
So in the next part of this text, I would say you and I need to understand that from time to time, it's important that we, if we're going to run this race and run it well, we're going to live effectively with the obstacles, challenges, whatever it is you're facing, then from time to time, we have to declutter our own lives.
Nobody can do this for us.
And if you go to my house today and you go upstairs into the office that I don't supposedly use, though I don't use it much because the truth is the desk in that office is always cluttered with junk.
Anybody here like this?
Anybody here can testify?
Okay, we got a few folks like this.
And it's not that I ever try to clutter it up.
It's just that there's stuff that happens and I'm always thinking, well, I'll take care of that later.
And so if you go up there right now and there's
paper stacked all over the place and you can't even clear off a spot to work.
If you were to go in there to do anything in my office, you would stand there about 15 seconds and roll your eyes and you would turn around and you would leave because you cannot work effectively unless from time to time you get rid of some things.
That's not just true for the desk in my office, it's true for my life as well.
And so the writer of Hebrew says there are a couple of different ways you and I need to, if we want to live effectively,
Focus.
If we're going to live effectively, there are a couple of ways we need to declutter our lives.
And the first is, he says, we need to lay aside things that are wrong.
Let us also lay aside every encumbrance and the sin, he says, that so easily entangles us, things that are wrong.
Now, there's nobody in the room here this morning.
That gets up in the morning on any particular day and says, what can I do today that will entangle my life?
Nobody gets up in the morning.
Let's have a list of things.
What are the most evil things that I can do today?
Nobody does that.
Our lives get entangled when we allow something to attach to us that doesn't belong, something that dishonors God, but we tell ourselves that it's not going to entangle us.
We say, well, it's just a small thing.
It's not a, it's not, nobody even has to know about it.
It's not a big, you know, we make excuses of every variety because somewhere in our minds, we tell ourselves that this sin, whatever it may be, a relationship that doesn't belong, or an attitude that doesn't belong, or a bitterness that doesn't belong, whatever it is, we tell ourselves that it's not gonna entangle us.
Well, the truth is, all we gotta do is look at the news and watch the latest sports star,
the latest movie star, the latest politician whose lust or pride or greed has now destroyed their reputation and tangled their life so that they cannot accomplish what it is that they've been given to do in this world.
The last thing that you want to do
But see, take place in your life to see your potential, your opportunity to run a race that has eternal consequence, to change the lives of the people around you, your children, the people who are in your extended family, the people you teach, the folks you work with, the last thing you want to do is to see your influence destroyed.
And it doesn't have to be.
As long as you and I from time to time will stop and take stock and say, you know, there's some things today that I need to lay aside.
Maybe today what you need to do is to say, you know, I'm going to lay this aside.
I'm going to take it to the Lord.
I'm going to tell somebody else about it so they can hold me accountable about it.
I'm going to become serious about this.
I just want to encourage you to get free today because God's given you a race to run.
And all you need to do to be able to protect that future race is to lay aside some things.
You lay aside some things that are wrong.
You also got to lay aside some things that are not wrong.
but they're just wrong for you.
Or maybe I should say they're wrong for now, for this season.
If you're gonna run the race, God's given you to run.
So what the writer says when he says, let us also lay aside every, here's this word, encumbrance.
It's not a sin.
Your Bible may say, wait.
Lay aside every weight.
It's not a sin.
It's just something that holds you back.
You know, Debbie and I just, I mentioned vacations a while ago.
Debbie and I just got back from vacation Friday, I guess it was.
And I told the first service, everybody needs to, after the service today, you need to come up and reward Deb or shake hands with her, hug her, tell her she's doing a great job.
And she just achieved one of the greatest things in life the other day on vacation.
Because when we went on vacation, I was buying the plane tickets to go.
And I'm like the cheapest person in America.
And so I got on expedient.
I got the best deal.
And I didn't know this till afterwards.
But whatever deal I got was a deal where you couldn't even carry a carry-on bag on.
I mean, they put us in no joke.
They put us, we had two flights on Friday.
They put us in the last seat of the plane, both times.
We couldn't even have a carry-on, you know, luggage.
And so all you could have was what they called a personal item.
So we went over to Belks and we bought these two little suitcases that were like supposed to be under the seat types.
You can't use them in the overhead bin.
And my wife packed for five whole days in California.
And this little thing that was no bigger than this, you guys do not know what an awesome miracle this is.
I'm telling you.
If I were to give you the context, I'd tell you, but when we were first married and we went on vacation the first time, some of you husbands can relate to this.
You know what I'm talking about.
I went inside the house and I packed my bag and it was about like that, you know, a little bag.
I pride myself on this.
So I bring it out and put it down a little two-seater car that we had.
Deb says, I'm ready.
And she comes out and she's pulling out this bag and then this other bag and it's like it's got like a two-two train, man.
It's coming out of the house.
And I'm shoving it all in this little hatchback that we got.
And finally, I get it all in there and I take the lid, the abzod inside the car and I slam it.
Bam!
But as hard as I can.
And I get in the seat.
And I'm as mad as I can be.
And I didn't talk for the first hour and a half of our vacation.
And some of y'all have been there.
And I've got to confess, I have learned that I'm not right.
You heard me say it?
I'm not right.
She's not wrong.
There's nothing righteous about packing a small bag going vacation.
Nothing wrong about packing 15 bags to go on vacation.
As long as you've got a big enough car and as long as you're going on vacation.
But you cannot do that if you're running a race.
You hear me?
If you're running a race, you cannot go down to the peach tree, Julian, July 4th, and drag all that stuff along behind you and live and run that race effectively.
You cannot do that if you're running a race.
It's not a matter of whether it's wrong or right.
It's a matter of whether it's wrong for you.
Now, there may be folks who can take 10 weeks and weekends and go off and do all that kind of stuff, and that's great.
There's nothing wrong with that.
I'm just telling you, it may be wrong for you.
If God's given you a race to run and it involves your being here to teach young people or to invest in the lives of children, listen, it's not that it's wrong or right's wrong for you.
You cannot get in the way for you.
God's given you a race to run.
Nothing is more important than pushing everything out of the way so that you can run it.
Declutter your life.
Remember that God's given you a race to run.
Nothing matters more than this.
Lay aside what's wrong.
That threatens your ability to run that race.
Lay aside what's wrong for you.
You know at Concord, there's certain things we don't do here.
You may have been at a different church sometime.
They did a ministry there that was a great ministry.
No complaints for that.
But listen, if you come and say, hey, let's do this or let's do.
Concord can't do everything.
Because God has called us and we understand that God has called us to do something.
Make disciples everywhere.
Every dollar we spend, every action we take, every ministry we carry out has to directly connect to that one thing.
It's the race God has given us to run.
Remember your race.
Today,
Declutter your life declutter streamline it focused Do what God's called you to do and learn how to reenergize constantly This is a skill not everybody has But it's a skill that you and I have to learn how to to do well.
We have to
The Bible says we run with endurance fixing our eyes on Jesus.
And you see that word, endurance.
And I was never a great athlete.
If you go, I ran track and I ran cross country in high school.
But if you go to look at the record books or the state of Georgia, you won't find my name anyplace on any record anywhere.
Because I was never all that great at it.
But I do know what it's like to run a race.
And let me tell you, I never ran a race that was not exhausting.
I don't care if it was a sprint or a mile or a marathon, I never, you guys know what I'm talking about?
There's no such thing as a race that isn't tiring.
And when you run the race that God has given you to run,
You shouldn't expect that it will not from time to time be exhausting.
It may be from time to time excruciating.
That's appropriate.
That's what racists are like.
And so you and I have to understand how do we, in the midst of that reality, how do we constantly re-energize?
And the writer of Hebrews tells his audience, here's how you focus.
Here's how you live effectively.
You learn to fix your eyes on the right place.
It's all about how we focus.
fixing your eyes, he says, on Jesus.
It's probably worthwhile for us this morning to spend a few minutes saying what this is not telling us to do.
Because there's so many temptations when we get tired or when we are exhausted and we are distracted because of that and then maybe diverted off course, we drift off course, we may stay there for years.
If we don't learn
how to re-energize.
The baubles not say that we are supposed to fix when we are tired our eyes on other people.
Now think about that passage in the last part of John's gospel where Jesus looks at Peter and he says, you know, when you were young, you used to gird yourself and go wherever you wanted to go.
But when you're old,
Someone else will gird you and take you where you don't want to go.
And that's not particularly the race Peter wanted to be able to run.
And so he begins to look around and he sees John over there and he says, what about him?
And Jesus says, if I want him to remain until I come, what is that to you?
You follow me.
And we're all tempted to do that same thing.
We have a race to run that is difficult, it's exhausting sometimes.
And we say, well, what about him?
He doesn't have the financial challenges that I have to deal with.
What about her?
She doesn't have an invalid parent to take care of like I do.
What about that person?
They don't have the health issues I have.
What about this person over here?
It's like their life is always, it seems like, just perfect.
It's like, let me just say to you, you cannot draw energy from that.
That does not add energy to anybody's life.
All it does is subtract.
You cannot fix your eyes on other people.
You can't fix your eyes on how big the problems are.
Some people do that.
And here are the spies going into the Promised Land.
Moses sends these 12 spies into the Promised Land.
They come back with a story about how big the problems are.
It's like, man, it's a huge challenge.
Nobody could do this.
It's like you cannot draw energy from looking at how big the problems are.
You can't draw energy from looking at how small you are.
How limited you are.
It's not about how small I am or limited I am.
It's how big God is.
You can't draw energy from looking at who the preacher is or isn't.
You know, folks, if you're at one of our campuses today and you want to come over to the Claremont campus and go over to what they call the chapel,
There's a stained glass window over there that's got all the names of every pastor who's ever served in this church.
God brings them, God moves them on, but you know what the truth is?
The power that has driven Concord Baptist Church in every generation and every season is Jesus Christ Himself.
the one that every one of those pastors looked to.
You can go beyond that if you want to and get in the graveyard.
There's a whole great cloud of witnesses there.
They had obstacles and challenges of every type and every one of those people learned that they drew strength.
They're not from looking at other people or looking at themselves, but they drew strength from fixing their eyes on Jesus because he is able.
And can I say to you this morning, he is as able as he has ever been for any of those generations.
Can I say to you today that he is as worthy as he has ever been for you and me to give him our very best?
Therefore, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses, let us also, like they did, lay aside every weight, every encumbrance, and ascend it so easily entangles us and let us run with endurance, the race,
that is set before us.
Because let me tell you something.
God has given Concord Baptist Church a great race to run.
And we are all a part of it.
I thank God for how He has prepared the day to bring us to this moment.
And I thank God for what He has for us in the future.
And for you and I as we focus, we remember what that race is and we lay aside anything and everything that gets in the way.
And we fix our eyes on one person and one person only.
Jesus Christ Himself.
God has great things in store for Concord.
And as you follow this same pattern in your individual life, God has great things in store for you.
Can I ask you to bow your heads and close your eyes?
In just a minute, we're going to have a hymn of invitation.
Our instrument is gonna come and play, and I just wanna ask if you wanna come today, you may be that you wanna come today and pray for Concord Baptist Church, because you know we're at a new season, a different season, and we need the leadership of Jesus, but let me tell ya, he's as faithful as he's ever been, and that leadership be available to us.
If you wanna come and pray for Concord, I invite you to come, you wanna come and pray for yourself, because you've got a race to run, you maybe have been diverted from that.
You need to recommit to your race this morning.
Maybe you need to come and join this church or trust Christ to be your Lord and Savior this morning.
I want to pray.
And after that, if you'll all stand, we'll have a hymn of invitation.
Father, thank you for the truth of your word.
Thank you that people just like us in every season and every generation, every nation, every part of the world have always been able to run the race you've given them by fixing their eyes on you.
Help us do the same.
We pray in Jesus' name, amen.